---
layout: category
title: Colloquium
---

# Fall 2017

## Justin Storbeck, Queen’s College of CUNY

CUNY GC Room 6304.01
October 20, 4:00 – 5:00pm
Title and abstract TBD

---

## Evie Vergauwe, University of Geneva

CUNY GC Room 6304.01
November 3, 4:00 – 5:00pm
Title and abstract TBD

---

## Jennifer Wagner, College of Staten Island of CUNY

CUNY GC Room 6304.01
December 8, 4:00 – 5:00pm
Title and abstract TBD

---

# Spring 2016

## Jen Drake, Brooklyn College of CUNY

Room 6495, 4pm, 2/26/16
### What Predicts Artistic Brilliance? The Cognitive, Behavioral, And Perceptual Skills Of Drawing Prodigies

Some young children are able to create stunningly realistic drawings that resemble those of adult artists. What behavioral, perceptual, and cognitive skills underlie this talent? In this talk, I will present a study of ten prodigies who draw realistically years before their peers, and I consider three pieces of evidence for their innate talent. First, the drawings of these children are advanced from the start before they have been given any formal drawing instruction. Second, these children are not just advanced but are also different: they have superior visual memory, mental rotation, and visual imagery skills and score higher on the personality measure of openness to experience. Most importantly, these children show a “rage to master” in the domain of drawing—a strong drive to figure out the rules of graphic representation. Gifted children in all domains show this rage to master. I argue that this drive is part of the talent, and this is what motivates gifted children to develop mastery (or seek practice). The talent and drive come first, the practice and mastery later.

---

## Becky Chamberlain

Room C197, 4pm,  3/25/16
### Aesthetic Responses To Computer-Generated And Man-Made Art

The generation of genuinely creative works of art could be considered as the final frontier in artificial intelligence. One test of success for a machine artist would be to convince the onlooker that it was generated by a human being and to produce an aesthetic experience identical to that induced by man-made art; an artistic Turing test. There is little research on whether individuals can differentiate between computer-generated art and man-made art and the aesthetic impact of computer-generated art has yet to be fully explored. Aesthetic responses to computer-generated art were investigated in two studies. Study 1 tested observers’ ability to discriminate between computer-generated and man-made art and then examined how categorization of art works impacted on aesthetic preference, revealing a bias against computer-generated art.  In Study 2 this bias was reproduced in the context of robotic art, however it was found to be reversed when observers were given the opportunity to see robotic artists in action. These findings reveal an explicit prejudice against computer-generated art, driven largely by beliefs about the capabilities of artistic algorithms. These prejudices can be overridden in circumstances in which observers are able to infer anthropomorphic characteristics in the computer programs, a finding which has implications for the future of artistic AI.

---

## Daniel Alarcón

Room 6495, 4pm, 4/15/16
### The Specific Pavlovian-Instrumental Transfer (PIT) Effect In Humans

In Pavlovian conditioning, animals and humans learn the predictive relation between a neutral cue (conditioned stimulus or CS) and a motivationally significant consequence (unconditioned stimulus or US), while in instrumental conditioning we learn the relation between our responses (R) and the consequences or outcome (O) of our behavior. Research in associative learning has consistently found that both Pavlovian and instrumental conditioning interact in the phenomenon known as Pavlovian-instrumental transfer (PIT) effect. In its specific form, presentations of a CS+ result in a performance elevation of the responses that were previously paired with the same outcome as the CS+. This phenomenon has been related to maladaptive behavior, such as drug abuse or obesity. For instance, it has been reported that presentations of cues (CS+) that have been paired with food (US) increase food consumption (R) in humans, even when they are not hungry. Due to its theoretical and applied relevance, this series of Experiments aimed to solve conflicting evidence on the specific PIT effect, and try to compare the predictions of different mechanisms that have been proposed to explain this effect by using human participants as subjects and a PIT task.

---

## Lana Karasik

Room C205 , 4pm, 5/13/16
TITLE: TBD

---

# Fall 2015

## Timothy Ricker, CSI of CUNY

6304.01, 4pm, October 2, 2015
### Consolidating Short-Term Memory To Prevent Forgetting

Working (short-term) memory is a crucial element of cognitive performance that influences the ability to perform a large variety of more complex cognitive tasks. Improvement of working memory has become a prominent focus for research in recent years in the hope that any improvement to working memory will also improve performance in other domains. The focus has largely centered on working memory training and post-cuing effects, but I propose another processes that can accomplish these goals, short-term consolidation. This is an attention demanding process that leads to increased resistance to forgetting of the short-term memory trace. I will discuss my work on short-term consolidation, characterizing its basic properties and explaining the difference between consolidation and other fundamental processes involved in memory creation and maintenance.

---

## Nicholaus Brosowsky, Brooklyn College of CUNY

6203.27, 4pm, November 6, 2015
### Context-Specific Attentional Sampling: Intentional Control As A Pre-Requisite For Contextual Control

Recent work suggests that environmental cues associated with previous attentional control settings can rapidly and involuntarily adjust attentional priorities. The current study tests predictions from adaptive-learning and memory-based theories of contextual control about the role of intentions for setting attentional priorities. To extend the empirical boundaries of contextual control phenomena, and to determine whether theoretical principles of contextual control are generalizable we used a novel bi-dimensional stimulus sampling task. Subjects viewed briefly presented arrays of letters and colors presented above or below fixation, and identified specific stimuli according to a dimensional (letter or color) and positional cue. Location was predictive of the cued dimension, but not the position or identity. In contrast to previous findings, contextual control failed to develop through automatic, adaptive-learning processes. Instead, previous experience with intentionally changing attentional sampling priorities between different contexts was required for contextual control to develop.

---

## Lawrence P. Behmer, Brooklyn College of CUNY

6304.01, 4pm, December 4th, 2015
### The Matrix Re-Reloaded: How Understanding The Cognitive Processes Of Motor Performance In The Laboratory Can Improve Brain-Computer Interfaces In The Real-World

Brain-Computer Interfaces (BCIs) have been developed to provide individuals with mobility disabilities limited movement. Despite significant advancements over the last fifteen years, there is still a long way to go in order for BCIs to provide users with the flexibility to match the standards of non-assisted motor performance. One significant way that BCIs can be improved is by applying findings from cognitive science to develop algorithms that can detect neural activity associated with higher-order aspects of motor control. In this talk, I present data from experiments investigating the serial order problem, statistical learning, and hierarchical control, from behavioral and brain imaging studies that may help to resolve some key limitations in the current state of BCI research. Incorporating data that addresses the underlying cognitive processes of action planning, motor learning, and cognitive control can improve BCI algorithms, providing users with a greater degree of flexibility while interacting with their environment.

---
